# IntlFormatted component

`IntlFormatted` is a component that allows you to format messages and render them as a component tree.

## Props

### `message`

**Type**: `string | MessageFormatElement[]`

This prop is used to specify the message to be formatted as a string or as an AST. If this prop is provided, the `message-id` prop will be ignored.

### `message-id`

**Type**: `string | MessageDescriptor`

This prop is used to specify the message to be formatted. It should be either a string that identifies the message or an object that contains an `id` property, which is a string that identifies the message, and a `defaultMessage` property, which is the message to be formatted. If this prop is provided, the `message` prop will be ignored.

### `values`

**Type**: `Record<string, any>`

This prop is used to provide values that will be used in the message. The values should be provided as an object where the keys correspond to the placeholders in the message.

## Slots

The `IntlFormatted` component has named slots that can be used to format the message.

### `~[placeholder]`

**Scoped props**: `values`

This slot is used to insert a value for a placeholder in the message. The name of the slot should start with a tilde (`~`) followed by the name of the placeholder in the message.

`values` scoped prop provides the access to the properties passed as `:values` prop to `IntlFormatted` component.

### `[tag]`

**Scoped props**: `children`, `values`

This slot is used to format a portion of the message as a component. The name of the slot should be the name of the HTML tag that should be used to wrap the contents.

The slot receives `children` prop. It contains `VNode`s, representing the children components.

As the children are `VNode`s, you cannot use `{{ interpolation }}` and have to use Vue 3 [`component` meta component][vuejs_component] that accepts a render function as `:is` property, which will simply return the children.

[vuejs_component]: https://vuejs.org/api/built-in-special-elements.html#component

## Example

Here's an example of how to use the `IntlFormatted` component:

::code-group

```vue [Code]
<script setup>
const messages = defineMessages({
  greeting: {
    id: 'personal-greeting',
    defaultMessage: 'Hello, <bold>{name}</bold>! {waving_hand}',
  },
})

const user = useAuthorizedUser()
</script>

<template>
  <IntlFormatted
    :message-id="messages.greeting"
    :values="{ name: user.displayName }"
  >
    <template #bold="{ children }">
      <strong><component :is="() => children" /></strong>
    </template>
    <template #~waving_hand><Icon name="noto:waving-hand" /></template>
  </IntlFormatted>
</template>
```

::code-block{label="Preview" preview}
:div[:LocaleChanger]{style="float: right"}
:UserGreeting
::

::

In this example we format the `greeting` message, which contains `name` and `waving_hand` arguments (placeholders), as well as utilises `bold` tag.

To do so we set `message-id` prop to our greeting message descriptor, as well as set `values` to an object containing value for `name` argument.

We then define two named slots:

- `bold`, which will receive `children` (in this case text `VNode`, containing user's display name), and which we wrap into `<strong>` element.
- `waving_hand`, which contains content of the argument with the same name, which is just an icon with waving hand.
